From our start in 1856, the University of Maryland has been built by visionaries and
shaped by fearless trailblazers.
Hiram Widdell, Elaine Johnson Coates, Pyeongsu, and Cheon-Jean Constant Chen are four such
trailblazers.
Hiram Widdell was the first African American to be admitted to our university in 1951.
Elaine Johnson Coates was the first African American female to graduate with a degree
in education in 1959.
The University of Maryland proudly presented them both with an honorary degree in recognition
of their invaluable contribution to our community.
Pyeongsu was the first Korean student to receive a degree from any American college or university.
Cheon-Jean Chen was the first Chinese student to enroll at the Maryland Agricultural College.
Today, the University of Maryland is proud to officially name our newest residence halls
in their honor.
Johnson Widdell Hall and Pyeong-Chen Hall will serve nearly 1,000 first and second year students,
with single and double rooms in halls designed to maximize natural light, common areas, and
study spaces.
These four names will be etched in stone, a lasting testament to a legacy of their terrapin
grit, resolve and a determination to succeed against all odds, and a fitting honor for
four individuals who will forever be symbols of opportunity and progress.